Halep ousts Venus, sets up Melbourne fourth-round clash with Serena World No.1 Simona Halep eased past seven-time Grand Slam champion Venus Williams, to queue up a scintillating fourth-round tilt with Serena Williams at the 2019 Australian Open. MELBOURNE, Australia -- World No.1 Simona Halep of Romania passed yet another tricky test at the 2019 Australian Open, defeating seven-time Grand Slam champion and former World No.1 Venus Williams of the United States, 6-2, 6-3, to reach the fourth round in Melbourne. "I think I played smart, aggressive, and also I moved her a lot, so I think that's why I could win," Halep said, during her post-match press conference. "Many things changed inside myself," Halep stated. "I try just to enjoy more the life, to be more relaxed, which I'm doing pretty well, and I feel much better. I think I will keep doing it." Top-seeded Halep, last year’s Australian Open runner-up, survived two dangerous opponents in the opening two rounds of the draw, edging both Kaia Kanepi and Sofia Kenin in three sets, and needed to get past the 38-year-old legend in another highly anticipated matchup to book her spot in the second week. Read more: As It Happened: Halep finds her best to set up Serena showdown in Melbourne Williams had won her first three matches against Halep in 2012 and 2013, but the Romanian had turned around the momentum in their head-to-head, winning their last two matches in straight sets, including at the Rogers Cup in Montreal last summer.  This tussle proved to be no exception to that pattern, as Halep claimed the two-set victory in one hour and 17 minutes to tie their head-to-head at three matches apiece. Halep had 21 winners to only 12 unforced errors. While Williams had 24 winners, she had 33 unforced errors, went 1-for-6 on break points, and only won 31 percent of points on her second serve. "I thought about the match in Montreal," said Halep. "I knew that [Venus] was injured back then, but I knew I have to play similar tennis, fast, quick, to stay very close to the baseline, which I did great today. Also to serve well because she returns pretty strong. She stays into the court and takes the return very fast."  In a stunning turn of events, Halep will now face another Williams sister in the round of 16: 23-time Grand Slam champion Serena Williams. Serena Williams ousted Dayana Yastremska, 6-2, 6-1, earlier on Saturday. "I only beat [Serena] once in my life, so I cannot say much about this match," said Halep. "Just that it's going to be a huge challenge for me. It's always great to play against Serena because every time I have to learn something from the match." "I have to be smart, aggressive," the World No.1 continued. "I have to move her and give my best. I will not super think about this because is nothing to think, just go there and play natural and with confidence." Williams used her steeliness, experience, and well-timed big serves to evade three break points in her first two service games and stay ahead up to 2-1. However, Halep got another crack at a break at 2-2, and this time, the top seed converted her chance with a backhand crosscourt winner to edge in front, 3-2. Halep then had to survive a marathon service game, using every tool in her arsenal to fend off four break points and hold for 4-2. The top seed was spurred on by this escape and claimed a second break in the subsequent game to lead 5-2, after Williams sent a forehand error long on break point. Serving for the set, Halep claimed an initial set point, but Williams saved it with an error-forcing forehand. A strong backhand by the American then gave her a break point, but it was squandered with a wide backhand. An ace brought up set point number two for Halep, which she converted with a forehand winner.  After winning the opener by notching five straight games, Halep continued her run of good form by breaking Williams in the first game of the second set. But Williams finally stopped the Romanian’s winning streak, garnering her first break of the match with exceptional play off the forehand side, leveling the set at 1-1. At 3-3, though, Halep once again lifted her level, firing a group of big forehands of her own to clinch another break of service and lead 4-3. A tight game followed, but Halep eked it out as her sturdy defense extended rallies long enough to grant her opportunities to close out points with perfectly measured groundstrokes. Serving to stay in the match at 5-3, Williams stumbled, firing two double faults in the first four points of the game to bring up double match point for Halep. The No.1 seed only needed one, blasting a forehand service return for a clean winner to move into the round of 16 and a date with Williams’s sister -- Serena. "I played many times against [Serena]," Halep said. "We had tough matches together. So it's going to be just a huge match for me. I will not put pressure on myself. There's a good chance for me to play my best tennis and to feel good on court."