Vekic dispatches Doi in swift Acapulco opener No.3 seed Donna Vekic raced to victory over Misaki Doi in the opening round of the Abierto Mexicano TELCEL presentado por HSBC. ACAPULCO, Mexico -- No.3 seed Donna Vekic of Croatia picked up a speedy victory as she kicked off her campaign at the Abierto Mexicano TELCEL presentado por HSBC, zooming past Japan's Misaki Doi, 6-0, 6-3 to reach the second round in Mexico. Doi had easily beaten Vekic in their one previous meeting on the clay of Madrid in 2017, but this match was a complete reversal as Vekic breezed to victory after just 64 minutes of play. Photos: Mexican magic: A decade of Acapulco champions from Venus to Tsurenko Vekic won 85 percent of points on her first serve and fired four aces, and she never faced a break point in the entire match. At the other end of the court, Doi struggled with her second service, claiming an even 25 percent of points when she was forced to put the second delivery in play. In the second round, World No.28 Vekic will face the winner of an all-qualifier battle between Christina McHale of the United States and Ysaline Bonaventure of Belgium. The Croatian started the encounter by taking Doi’s opening service game after the Japanese player double faulted on break point. Vekic then quickly claimed a double-break advantage with an error-forcing crosscourt backhand to lead 3-0. Vekic used beautiful backhands to keep her momentum rolling, and had no trouble garnering the final three games over an error-prone Doi. The No. 3 seed completed her first-set dominance in just 21 minutes. Vekic needed three break points but continued her run by claiming Doi’s serve in the opening game of the second set. The Croatian got up to eight games in a row before Doi got on the board for 2-1 by holding with a forehand winner. The World No.120 finally found her way into the match, being more patient in the rallies before she could find opportunities for winners with her left-handed shots. But by this point, Vekic refused to cede any part of her lead, using tremendous defense and ferocious forehands to keep holding serve comfortably. Doi held her serve three times in a row before the match concluded, but Vekic never once allowed Doi a look on her serve. Serving at 5-3, Doi saved three match points with bold play, but after she pulled from 0-40 to deuce, Vekic claimed a fourth match point with a forehand winner, and that chance was converted after a Doi error into the net. More to follow...