Yastremska sees off Linette in Thailand for second WTA final No.8 seed Dayana Yastremska will face Ajla Tomljanovic in the championship match of the Toyota Thailand Open presented by E@ after defeating Magda Linette in straight sets. HUA HIN, Thailand - Ukrainian teenager Dayana Yastremska will play for her second career WTA title in  six months at the Toyota Thailand Open presented by E@ after defeating Poland's Magda Linette, 6-4, 6-3, in Saturday's second semifinal.  The No.8 seed earned a spot opposite No.6 seed Ajla Tomljanovic in just under 90 minutes, as she saved all four break points she faced before breaking in the final game of the opener and rallied from an early break down in the second set to win in two. "I have another chance to win my second WTA title, and I'm going to try my best, but I'm not going to think about it too much," Yastremska said. "I don't want to put extra pressure on myself, but I'm going to try my best. Today, I was a bit tired on-court, and I definitely had a tough draw. That was my road, and I'm happy that I could pass it and make the finals." Yastremska, who had a similarly emphatic performance to defeat top seed Garbiñe Muguruza in the quarterfinals, hammered 29 winners to Linette's five over the course of the match.  Since winning her first career title in Hong Kong last September, Yastremska has reached the quarterfinals or better at three of the four tournaments she's played, with her lone earlier loss coming in the third round of the Australian Open to Serena Williams. The 18-year-old will look to score her second career win against Tomljanovic in Sunday's final, having knocked her off in qualifying of the China Open in Beijing late last fall. Read more: Tomljanovic too strong for Zidansek in Thailand semifinals "She's a very good player and strong mentally," the Ukrainian assessed. "Tomorrow is going to be a great fight. "I'm going to look at the match we played last year, and I'm going to analyze it, but I will try to prepare more physically than tactically, because I have to get the energy back for tomorrow's match."