Azarenka cruises past Collins in Acapulco first round An intriguing opening-round draw went completely the way of former World No.1 Victoria Azarenka, who dispatched No.2 seed Danielle Collins to reach the second round of the Abierto Mexicano TELCEL presentado por HSBC. ACAPULCO, Mexico -- Former World No.1 Victoria Azarenka of Belarus claimed a first-round victory over one of the top seeds at the Abierto Mexicano TELCEL presentado por HSBC on Tuesday, easing past No.2 seed Danielle Collins of the United States, 6-1, 6-2. "I knew that [Collins] was a very dangerous opponent," Azarenka told the press, following her win. "I feel like on any given day she can really beat anybody." World No.25 Collins had a tremendous breakthrough at the Australian Open, rolling all the way to the semifinals, but two-time Australian Open titlist Azarenka was too strong on the day, knocking out the second seed after one hour and 11 minutes of play. Photos: Mexican magic: A decade of Acapulco champions from Venus to Tsurenko "Against top players, [Collins] really steps up a level, so I was definitely expecting a tough match," Azarenka added. "I felt like I took a lot of good opportunities in the beginning, put a lot of pressure, and didn’t really let her get back into the match. I felt that I’ve done that really well today." Azarenka, currently ranked World No.50, will face Germany’s Tatiana Maria in the second round. Maria defeated lucky loser Martina Trevisan of Italy earlier on Tuesday, 6-2, 7-6(1). The combatants had met once before, in the quarterfinals of San Jose last year, where Azarenka had won the first set in a tiebreak before injury forced her to retire during the second set and cede the result to Collins. But the Belarusian moved well and was in complete control in the Acapulco evening, winning 77 percent of her first-service points and converting six of her seven break opportunities. Azarenka had a commanding start to the match, using brilliant backhands and dogged defense to break Collins in the American’s first two service games en route to a 4-0 lead. Collins stopped the run with a service hold to get on the board at 4-1, but the opening-set damage had already been done for the No.2 seed. At 5-1, Azarenka reached set point after Collins double faulted at deuce. The Belarusian jumped on the opportunity handed to her, powering a service return back at Collins which led to a wide backhand by the American, wrapping up the set. Azarenka had to steady herself in the opening game of the second set, as Collins started going for broke on service returns and was rewarded with three break points. However, Azarenka picked up her serving, forcing wide returns with powerful deliveries, and ended up with a clutch hold for 1-0. That started another run for the Belarusian, who once again broke Collins twice and built up a 4-0 lead. In the following game, Collins blasted a return winner on break point to get her only service break of the evening. The American consolidated the break for 4-2, but much like in the first set, she was unable to pull herself back from her scoreline deficit into contention. Azarenka remained unfazed, holding at love for 5-2, and then crushed a backhand return winner of her own crosscourt to set up double match point. There, Collins dinked a half-volley into the net, giving the former World No.1 a breezy victory over a highly-ranked, challenging opponent.