Bryans Beat Skupskis For Fifth Delray Beach Title
Bob Bryan and Mike Bryan have never lived in Delray Beach, Florida, but the Delray Beach Open has long served as a second home to the all-time greats, and it did again on Sunday.
The Bryans won their fifth Delray Beach crown and 117th tour-level title together, beating another pair of brothers in Brits Ken Skupski/Neal Skupski 7-6(5), 6-4 during the historic final at the ATP 250. The title is their first together since last April at the Rolex Monte-Carlo Masters, the last time they celebrated a tour-level title before Bob injured his right hip and had to miss the rest of the 2018 season.
The twin Americans were playing in their seventh Delray Beach final (5-2) and first tour-level title match since the 2018 Mutua Madrid Open, an ATP Masters 1000, last May, when Bob's right hip forced him to retire.
He didn't play another match all season, and Mike went on to partner countryman Jack Sock for three titles – Wimbledon, US Open and the Nitto ATP Finals – and become the oldest player (40 years, 78 days) to be ranked No. 1 in the ATP Doubles Rankings.
"Watching Mike do it last year gave me a lot of confidence," Bob Bryan said. "To see that he could get to No. 1 and be so dominant with Jack really helped me mentally. It helped get me to this stage because I know it's possible."
After Bob recuperated from hip surgery he underwent last August, the Bryans joined forces again in January, and their title this week shows they're back – or at least close to – their 2018 form that saw them pick up two ATP Masters 1000 titles (Miami, Monte-Carlo) before Bob's injury.
“We don't want to stop here. We want to keep rolling and hold up bigger ones, hopefully an [ATP Masters 1000] in the near future and then a [Grand Slam],” Mike Bryan said.
The teams traded breaks in the opening set, but the Bryans took the tie-break with a 1-2 punch – a serve then volley winner. The Skupskis struggled to put the first set behind them, as Neal Skupskicontributed two of their seven double faults for the match in the opening game of the second set. The Bryans earned the break, the only one they'd need in the second set.
The Bryans will receive 250 ATP Doubles Rankings points and $32,950 in prize money. The Skupskis will receive 150 ATP Doubles Rankings points and $16,870 in prize money.
It was the first all-brothers doubles final on the ATP Tour since June 1977, when Vijay Amritraj and Anand Amritraj beat John Lloyd and David Lloyd 6-1, 6-2 at The Queen's Club in London.
