Munar Downs ATP Tour Debutant Sakamoto In Sao Paulo
On his debut at the Brasil Open, Jaume Munar needed just 66 minutes to defeat Pedro Sakamoto 6-3, 6-2 on Tuesday.
The 2018 Next Gen ATP Finals semi-finalist, who is bidding to reach his fifth ATP Tour quarter-final of the season this week, converted each of his four break points to reach the second round. Brazilian qualifier Sakamoto was making his ATP Tour debut after defeating former World No. 37 Carlos Berlocqen route to the main draw.
Munar will be aiming to earn his 10th tour-level victory of the season when he meets Christian Garin of Chile in the second round. Garin claimed a first-round win for the third straight week on the ATP Tour on Monday, beating Pedro Sousa of Portugal 7-6(3), 6-2.
Cordoba Open champion Juan Ignacio Londero joined Munar in the second round. The seventh-seeded Argentine dropped only three points behind his first serve (35/38) to defeat Paolo Lorenzi 7-6(3), 6-1. Londero will meet Hugo Dellien of Bolivia for a place in the quarter-finals. Dellien cruised past Spanish qualifier Pedro Martinez 6-1, 6-2 in 61 minutes.
Albert Ramos-Vinolas saved both break points he faced en route to a 6-1, 6-3 victory over Facundo Bagnis. The former finalist could next meet Pablo Cuevas in a repeat of the 2017 championship match. Three-time former champion Cuevas will meet Rio Open presented by Claro finalist Felix Auger-Aliassime in his first-round match on Wednesday.
Brazilian teenager Thiago Seyboth Wild recorded the first ATP Tour main draw win of his career with a 6-3, 4-6, 6-2 upset against Elias Ymer of Sweden. The 18-year-old, currently No. 449 in the ATP Rankings, made his ATP Tour main draw debut at this event last year. Seyboth Wild concluded his junior career last year after winning the boys’ singles title at the US Open. He’ll play Marco Trungelliti of Argentina in the next round.
#NextGenATP Norwegian Casper Ruud continued his top form with a 6-3, 6-4 victory over home favourite Thiago Monteiro. Ruud came through qualifying and reached the quarter-finals last week at the Rio Open presented by Claro. He will now take on top seed Joao Sousa of Portugal for a place in the last eight.
